Replace "Geolocation" and "Orientation"articles by "Emulate device sensors (Sensors tool)" (#3431)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/sensors/index.md

You can also set a custom orientation by dragging the **Orientation Model**.  Hold **Shift** before dragging to rotate along the alpha axis.

<!-- ![The Orientation Model](todo: png) -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Force touch

To test touch events on your website, you can force touch instead of click even if you're testing on a device without a touch screen.

To trigger touch events with your pointer:

1. Open the **Sensors** tool. https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/sensors#open-sensors

1. Under the **Touch** drop-down list, select **Force touch**.

   <!-- ![Forcing touch instead of click](todo: png) -->

1. Click **Reload DevTools** in the prompt at the top.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Emulate idle detector state

The Idle Detection API https://developer.chrome.com/articles/idle-detection lets you detect inactive users and react on idle state changes.  With DevTools, you can emulate idle state changes for both the user state and screen state instead of waiting for the actual idle state to change.

To emulate idle states:

> 1. Open the **Sensors** tool.  For this tutorial, you can try it on this demo page. https://idle-detection.glitch.me/

Author: might need demo like https://idle-detection.glitch.me
@captainbrosset 

Rendered section:
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/blob/user/mikehoffms/sensors2/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/sensors/index.md#emulate-idle-detector-state

Author: Outdated

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Force touch events when clicking
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/sensors#touch -->

To test touch events on your website, you can force touch instead of click even if you're testing on a device without a touch screen.

To trigger touch events with your pointer:

1. [Open the Sensors tool](#open-the-sensors-tool).

1. Under the **Touch** drop-down list, select **Force enabled**:

   ![Forcing touch instead of click](./index-images/force-touch.png)

1. Click the **Reload DevTools** button at the top of DevTools.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Emulate idle detector state
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/sensors#idle -->

The [Idle Detection API](https://developer.chrome.com/articles/idle-detection)<!-- "Detect inactive users with the Idle Detection API" --> lets you detect inactive users and react on idle state changes.  With DevTools, you can emulate idle state changes for both the user state and screen state instead of waiting for the actual idle state to change.

To emulate idle states:

> 1. [Open the Sensors tool](#open-the-sensors-tool).  For this tutorial, you can try it on the [Ephemeral Canvas](https://idle-detection.glitch.me/) demo page.

Reviewer: I made this simple demo: https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/idle-detection/
It's not deployed yet apparently. I'll give it some time and push again to try and force publish it if it doesn't work.

```suggestion
1. [Open the Sensors tool](#open-the-sensors-tool).  For this tutorial, you can try it on the [Idle detection demo](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/idle-detection/) page.
```

> 1. In the demo page, select the **Ephemeral** checkbox, and then click the **Allow** button to grant the demo page the idle detection permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the demo page, click **Start detecting idle state** and then click the **Allow** button to grant the demo page the idle detection permission.
```

   <!-- ![Granting the idle detection permission on a demo page](./index-images/granting-idle-detection.png) can't get dialog again -->

1. Reload the page.

1. From the **Emulate Idle Detector state** drop-down, select one of the following:
   * **No idle emulation**
   * **User active, screen unlocked**
   * **User active, screen locked**
   * **User idle, screen unlocked**
   * **User idle, screen locked**

   ![Selecting an idle and locked state on a demo page](./index-images/idle-detection-demo.png)

> In this example, DevTools emulates a **User idle, screen locked** state and, in this case, the demo page starts the 60 second countdown to clear the canvas.

Reviewer: Maybe rephrase to something like "The demo page displays the emulated user and screen states".

To emulate how your website performs on devices with different numbers of processor cores, you can override the value reported by the [navigator.hardwareConcurrency](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Navigator/hardwareConcurrency) property.  Some applications use this property to control the degree of parallelism of their application, for example, to control [Emscripten `pthread`](https://emscripten.org/docs/porting/pthreads.html) pool size.

To emulate hardware concurrency:

1. [Open the Sensors tool](#open-the-sensors-tool).

1. Near the bottom, select the **Hardware concurrency** checkbox.

1. In the number input box, enter the number of cores you want to emulate:

   ![Turned on 'Hardware concurrency' with the number of cores set to 10](./index-images/hardware-concurrency.png)

   Caution: Exceeding the default value may degrade performance.

To revert to the default value, click the **Reset** (![Reset icon](./index-images/reset-icon.png)) button.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Emulate CPU pressure
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/sensors#cpu-pressure -->

> [CPU or compute pressure](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/compute-pressure) is a set of reported states that give you an idea of how much workload the system's compute is undergoing and whether it's near to the limit or not.  This information lets you adapt your real-time application, for example, video conferencing or video game, to take advantage of all the available processing power while keeping the system responsive by adapting the workloads in real time.

Reviewer: I would remove the link to developer.chrome.com here. There's already a link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Compute_Pressure_API in the next paragraph, and I think that's enough.
